[Transcript missing]
Actually, before Darin gets going,
you know,
if you ever catch this guy in the hall,
okay,
make sure you don't ask him something,
a question about something
he's really interested in,
because he'll just never stop talking,
okay?
No.
All right.
Well, welcome.
We're going to talk about
not just about web standards,
but we're also going to talk
about how we support web standards
inside the Safari technology,
if you're using Safari, the application,
or if you're using
WebKit inside your own app.
So first of all,
I was thinking about this talk,
and I was trying to figure
out who would be interested.
Who does it matter to?
"Developers, developers, developers,
developers, developers, developers,
developers, developers!"
All of you.
It matters to all of you.
And so there's a few different types
of developers who'd be interested in
what we're going to talk about here.
If you're a website developer,
you'll be interested.
Now, it's kind of funny to say if
you're a website developer.
I mean, everyone is a website
developer these days.
Some people just do a
little website of their own.
Other people might be designing
a whole professional website.
No matter which category you fall into,
I'll have some stuff
that's valuable for you.
If you do a Macintosh application,
there's a chance you're going
to want to embed WebKit.
And the things you learn here
about standards are going to
help you understand why you
would want to embed WebKit.
Everything I say about
standards applies to Apple Help.
And also, if you want to know
something about the guts,
what's inside a web browser,
this is also going to be great for you.
So here are some of the
things we're going to cover.
The WebKit,
the support for web standards in WebKit,
the approach that the WebKit takes
to compatibility with websites,
also the WebKit and open source.
You've heard about that in
a bunch of other sessions.
I'm going to repeat some
of what you've heard,
but tell you a few new things,
and also some of our goals
for the future in this area.
So let's get started.
Let's review a little bit.
If you've been to the conference
for the last three days,
I hope you've already heard this stuff.
But let's talk about it again
to set the stage for the rest
of what I'm going to say.
First of all, we're very proud of Safari.
It was a big success.
We released our public beta this January.
More than 5 million copies
were downloaded since then,
which, you know, I'm not going to say
how many we expected.
Let's just say this is more.
And Safari 1.0 was released this week,
and, you know,
we couldn't be more pleased with that.
But one of the questions we think
about is why was it so popular?
We think the reasons
are mainly these three.
The impressive performance of Safari,
the great innovative features,
and the quality.
So now let's talk about the WebKit.
Again, if you've been to presentations
over the past couple days,
I hope you already know this.
What is the WebKit?
The WebKit is the engine inside Safari.
And so this engine is now available to
you for any application on Macintosh.
And so what that means is if
you're a website developer,
any kind of content developer
who's using web standards,
Safari support is vitally important
to you because it not only affects
how the Safari web browser is
going to show your content,
but also any other Mac OS X application
that uses the WebKit.
and it's available now.
So again, a reminder of something you
should have already heard.
You can use the WebKit right now
in Cocoa or Carbon applications.
On 10.2, you just have to have
Safari installed to use the WebKit.
On Panther, it's there all the time.
And there's some details about
the API that you've heard before.
I won't repeat them again.
So let's put the WebKit in context.
Just one more little bit of review.
The WebKit is a framework.
It's built on top of
many system frameworks.
These aren't all of them.
This is just kind of a
sample to give you some idea.
The application kit that it
uses for a lot of its work.
Foundation, where the new URL APIs are
that it uses to read in data.
And then applications built on top of it,
Safari's one.
New applications that you
develop are also fitting there.
And then also inside WebKit,
there are the two open-source
frameworks that WebKit uses to
do a lot of the heavy lifting.
WebCore, which is the library based on
KHTML from the KDE project,
and JavaScriptCore.
And when we get to a part of this
talk that focuses on open-source,
we'll discuss this a little bit more.
So there's some words that say the
same thing that picture just did.
So let's start talking about
the web standards themselves.
Let me begin by putting up there a
list of some of the most important
goals that we had in mind when
we were designing the WebKit.
You know,
standards-- we wanted to make sure
that web pages looked good when
they were displayed by the WebKit.
And we also wanted to make
sure that they worked,
they did the job they need to.
And in addition,
supporting standards was kind
of a goal in and of itself.
But supporting standards
is also a means to the end.
It's something that allows us to
work with those existing web pages.
And you know,
one of the things we sometimes
talk about is showing web pages
the way the designer intended,
which is a very tricky thing,
because you don't know-- you need to
know what was in their head at the time.
It's not enough to just look
at the content of the page.
And so this is what we had in mind
when we were working on web pages.
So what we did is we had a list
of standards that we had in mind
when we were designing the WebKit.
And we had a list of standards
that we had in mind when we
were designing the WebKit.
And we had a list of standards
that we had in mind when we
were designing the WebKit.
So what you see here is a list
of some of the most important
standards that are in the WebKit.
And what I'm going to do
now-- and you're going to be
seeing this slide for a while,
so better read it and then look at me,
because it's going to be
really boring up there.
So I'm going to talk a little bit
about each of these standards here.
And what they mean inside a web browser.
So first of all,
there's the HTML standard.
And this is really the
cornerstone of web technology.
Originally,
it was a standard for web development.
But now it's a standard
for web development.
Originally, in the old days,
there were a couple image formats,
the HTML standard, and the HTTP standard
for getting web pages.
And that was it.
That really was already recognizable
as the web that we see today.
And so the HTML standard,
currently version 4,
there's lots of things you
can do with just HTML alone.
HTML describes the
content of the web pages,
what comes first, what goes next.
It includes things that allow
you to put images in the page,
links to and from pages, and of course,
a form elements like buttons and lists.
And also part of HTML are the tables,
which actually is one of the most
difficult standards to deal with.
Because tables are sort
of this de facto standard.
Nowhere can you find written down the
exact rules of how wide tables should
be and given various specifications.
And it's one of the trickiest parts of
being compatible with existing websites.
So we'll come back to that in a minute.
Then there's also an important
standard called XHTML.
And XHTML is the XML version
of the HTML standard.
And one of the really --
there are lots of reasons to
move into this new XML world.
But one of the main reasons is it
creates a future possibility of
having a single XML document that
inside it has an XHTML portion.
In another part of it,
it might have an SVG portion or
any other for vector graphics and
any other XML-based languages.
And they should be able to all
intermingle and interweave.
And so that's a reason why
XHTML is very important.
HTML was always conceived
to be a language to describe
what was on the web page,
and not how it should look.
And so its ways of letting you
control exactly where things are
positioned on the page are all
sort of almost unintentional.
People really had to push it
to its limit to get an image
exactly where they wanted.
And mainly what they did was use tables,
tables inside tables with another
table here and a table around that.
And as I mentioned before,
that was one of the least standardized
aspects of how browsers work.
And a real revolution in this came
with the next standard on the list,
which is cascading style sheets.
Cascading style sheets,
as you can see there,
which had already had a version
one and version two and version
three has been being worked on now,
is a way to describe how a page
should look separate from the content.
So you still use HTML to
say what's on the page,
but you use cascading style sheets
to describe how it should look.
We'll talk about that a
little more in detail.
[Transcript missing]
And in addition to the
DOM level 1 and 2 standards,
we support some extensions.
DOM level 0 is some of the
most important DOM stuff,
and it's not in any standard,
but we have to support that,
and we support some
Microsoft extensions to DOM.
So there you have it,
a list of our supported standards.
But wait, there's more.
Besides all these basic
standards for the web,
there are even more things you
need before you can work with the
real-life websites that are out there.
Very important standards,
some of which aren't standards at all.
The Netscape cookie standard,
which is not really a standard
any standards body defines.
The plug-in API.
This is the way we get things in
WebKit applications like Flash content
from Macromedia or Shockwave
Director or real player content.
And even QuickTime,
that's the way it plugs into the
programs that use the WebKit.
We support Java applets,
and our Java team has done a great
job of making Java applets work
really well inside WebKit programs.
And when it comes to character sets,
when it comes to working
all around the world,
it's amazing how many different
character sets there are and how many
different names there are for them.
And so many of those names
are documented in the central
repositories and official names,
and then so many of them
aren't documented anywhere,
and you just have to discover them
on the websites that use them.
Inside WebKit, it uses Unicode,
and this means that you can use different
pages with different character sets,
and it all works together nicely.
JavaScript always gets the
same kinds of character codes.
And then finally,
we have support for the kinds of
bidirectional text and contextual
letter form stuff that you need to
work with languages other than English.
But wait, there's more.
So this third page is also a
list of some important ones that
are supported inside the WebKit.
In fact, almost all of these are things
that are supported in the
Foundation URL API layer.
And these are standards that
have to do with getting the
content inside the WebKit,
pulling it out from the web.
The basic protocol, HTTP,
including some of the more
recent additions in the history
of HTTP for chunk transfers,
which are for pages that
come a bit at a time,
and persistent connections,
which make using a website with
lots of images much faster.
The authentication standards
that you need to support,
the secure HTTP standards,
and also support for
some proxy standards.
So anyway, there's the big laundry list.
And so now, with that out of the way,
having listed those out of the way,
let's talk a little bit more about these,
just so you can get some
understanding of what they are
and how they relate to WebKit.
So let's zoom in for a
moment on contextual style--
on cascading style sheets.
Ha!
I keep saying that.
The CSS standard.
So as I said before,
the important thing about the
CSS standard is that for the
people designing it was completely
separating the appearance of a
page from the content of that page.
I'll show you what
that means in a minute.
But besides that,
it meant something more to the
web community when it arrived.
And that is it allowed you to do real
design with each element placed where
you wanted it and the page laid out just
the way you like without using tables.
And so this really creates the
possibility of making a page that
looks the same on all the browsers
without navigating this tricky world
of how tables work in each browser.
And the basic structure of
cascading style sheets is that you
have a predicate-- in this case,
this little example I put in the box,
the predicate is form,
so it says all-- that means it
applies to all form elements.
But there are ways to do predicates
that apply to certain named elements,
certain classes of elements,
not just which tag.
And then you specify the
styles you want to apply.
And styles are everything
from the mundane,
like the color or the font family,
to incredibly sophisticated
things that are browser features
that are expressed as styles.
So that's a little bit about
cascading style sheets.
Now,
another-- another thing that I want to
talk about is the fact that there's a
lot of stuff that's going on in the web.
And I think that's a good thing.
Now, another-- another one of the
standards that's worth discussing
in a bit more detail is the DOM.
Again, one of the main things this lets
you do is manipulate the document,
manipulate the objects in the
web page from inside JavaScript.
And this is how you achieve
dynamic effects on web pages.
I just gave a little example here.
You might have a form with a
checkbox in it for the language,
and this line of JavaScript code
would let you check that checkbox.
And so that's-- that's a little
example of-- of use of the DOM.
Well, thank you.
So let's talk in depth about a
couple more of the standards,
and then I'll show you some web pages.
So the plug-in support that we have is
another de facto standard from Netscape.
Netscape documents how plug-ins
worked in their original
versions of the Netscape browser,
and that really establishes
how plug-ins work today.
Existing plug-ins that
worked on Macintosh,
that worked with browsers
that existed before Safari,
will work in any WebKit application.
There's nothing you have to
do to make plug-ins work.
And so if you're writing a plug-in,
you know it'll work inside
any app using WebKit.
And you can actually make a
Mac OS version of your plug-in,
and that'll load even faster.
I wanted to mention that here because
I wasn't sure what other talk we'd
have a chance to mention it in.
And also,
this is an area to look to in the future.
We're going to make
significant enhancement-style
plug-ins work in the future.
And then, besides plug-ins,
there's one other area
worth highlighting,
which is Java.
Java is... Java applets are a big
part of many websites and have
great support for Java applets.
You need the whole suite of libraries
that Java programmers expect to be there.
And in Mac OS X,
you have the latest released version
of Sun's Java Standard Edition.
And you get that through software
update if you're using Jaguar
or it's included in Panther.
And the plug-in that we have for
Java that makes Java applets work,
it's actually a plug-in that comes
with Java that connects with a WebKit,
supports all the
Sun Java plug-in features,
including a debugging console.
And it's all--and--excuse me.
And if plug-ins manipulate cookies,
that works-- that is integrated with
the WebKit's own use of cookies.
So let's move over to the, uh,
onto this demo machine here.
And I'll show you a couple examples
just to illustrate what I'm talking
about with the types of web pages.
So let's start with,
uh-- let's start with
a simple HTML example.
Now, I actually-- believe it or not,
I was actually gonna show
Google as this simple example.
But when I tried to load
Google before the demo,
it didn't load.
So,
I don't know about the rest of you guys,
but I kind of count on
that page being there.
But anyway,
Yahoo is another good example.
This is simple, old-fashioned HTML.
Now, the page has lots of elements on it.
It has pictures and stuff.
It has bold-faced text.
It has a nice layout.
It uses some tables.
But this is really basic HTML.
And another page here to look
at that's a little more complex,
but still is just really HTML,
is CNN.com.
And they do all kinds of things
with these nested tables and stuff,
but they're not using any.
They're doing all of this
using techniques that have
been around for a long time,
not really using some of
these more recent standards.
Let's take a look at one page
that I think really illustrates
what CSS is really about.
This site is called the CSS Zen Garden.
And basically,
all the text that you can't read is
describing the purpose of the site.
And the people who came up with this
site realized that a lot of designers
didn't get what you could do with
CSS in terms of changing the look of
a site without changing the content.
So I'll just page down a
little bit just so you can see.
Oh, I should have used a Panther machine.
This is a Jaguar machine.
Well, anyway,
it scrolls nicer on Panther.
So, basically,
what you're going to see now when I click
on this link is the same web page.
Okay, we're just going to
change the style sheet.
So, let's go to this one here.
So this is the same HTML.
Nothing has changed about the HTML.
The only thing that
changed is the style sheet,
and you'll notice all kinds
of things have changed.
Everything from the font,
these different capitals, the layout.
These sections were all vertical
in the other style sheet.
Now one is to the side,
one is above the other.
And here's one I really like.
Oh yeah,
the way things highlight when you move
over them is controlled by the CSS.
So here's one I really like.
This actually changes the whole website
to have a horizontal orientation.
It's the exact same HTML.
Nothing has changed in the HTML.
In fact,
all the HTML does is kind of say,
you know, this section has this name,
this other section has that name.
And completely separate from the HTML,
the HTML is the same.
HTML, the style sheet determines
how the page looks,
but not just in trivial ways,
in the major ways,
how the layout is done.
So just trying to illustrate
what CSS really means.
Now here's an example of a kind of crazy
page done with a DOM that gives you some
idea of what you can do with the DOM.
Oh, wait a second.
What version of Safari is this?
You know, I think I shouldn't do this.
This is beta 2.
Oh, my god.
OK, well, anyway.
So I can't really show
you this page very well.
OK, well, forget this one.
So here's an example of
something someone did with a DOM.
And this looks like an animation.
It looks like it might
be a suite of images.
But this is actually just text.
There's layer upon layer of text here.
And it's just being
moved around on the page.
Using the DOM,
you can use the elements on the web page,
the plain text itself, in your program.
So you can write little demo programs.
I thought this might
illustrate that using the DOM,
you program a web page.
Boy, I hope Beta 2 is really
good on my other demo pages.
Well, let's go back to the slides,
and we'll come back to the... Yeah,
no thanks.
Not during the talk.
So anyway, that's a basic overview of
standards inside Safari.
So now let's talk about
website compatibility,
designing to work with these standards,
and also designing WebKit to work
with websites that are out there.
So first of all,
what you see is a list of some of
the most important things to do if
you want to create a website that
actually is standards compliant,
that's actually going to work.
And so one of the first things
to do is to actually learn
something about the web standards.
It's worth doing a
little bit of studying.
You know,
a lot of people make web pages by
taking an existing one and tinkering
with it and changing it a bit.
But if you want to make a really
great website that's going to
work with all the browsers,
it's worth reading up a little
bit about these standards.
And like I said, the most important ones
to learn about are really
HTML itself and CSS and the DOM.
And then another way to understand
how well you've done that is
to actually test your site with
a lot of different browsers.
You start to understand what--that
you're--when you are and aren't
relying on browser-specific
behavior by actually trying the
page with more than one browser.
And we highly recommend
testing with Safari.
And also,
there are some tools out there that
will validate and check for mistakes.
There's all sorts of mistakes
that you make that can be
found by an automated tool,
and the W3C has some of those tools.
In fact, I'll give URLs for one of
those at the end of the talk.
To understand what we're even
talking about when we talk about
a standards-based website or
a standards-compliant website,
it's worth looking back a little
bit into the history of the web.
It wasn't long ago when there
was really one important browser.
I know it's hard to remember back then,
but the browser from Netscape
was really the one that defined
what advanced websites did.
And the quirks that this browser had,
the particular way it worked,
were more important than any standard,
really.
People programmed around those.
I mentioned the way tables worked
as a great example of that.
But then a new one
showed up on the scene,
Microsoft Internet Explorer,
and it quickly became a very
important second browser.
And so lots of websites discovered
that they didn't look the same
in this new browser as they
looked in the old browser.
And they thought it was vitally
important to look the same.
And so tables had different quirks.
And so lots of sites started to check
which browser it was and give you totally
different content for the two browsers.
Sometimes they take you to
a whole different web page.
And this led to this body of
knowledge on how to do that.
And a lot of it was done by
checking the string that identifies
which browser you're talking to.
It's called the user agent string.
And so you'd check to see if it was
the Microsoft browser using that.
Now, uh...
[Transcript missing]
So another thing is,
you should be able to build
your whole website without ever
parsing the user agent string.
Because by definition,
if you're looking at the
user agent string to figure
out what kind of content,
then you're not going to
work with a new web browser.
How can you predict what the user
agent string of some future web
browser is going to have in it?
There was a time when this was
the only way to check things,
but that time is long past.
And right now,
the main thing to do with user
agent string is to tell people
the name of the web browser.
You know, that's about the only
thing I can think of to do,
or log what web browser someone used,
not to figure out what
kind of content to give.
And then another thing to avoid,
and this may sound obvious,
but you have to read the standards
enough to know what things
are non-standard extensions.
So don't just use them because
they happen to be there on the
one browser you test with first.
And in a lot of cases,
there are standard alternatives.
Those are a few of the things not to do.
Just a couple high-level tips on that.
And let's talk about some of
the things that you should do.
So first of all,
when I say don't check at all,
don't check the user agent string,
don't check document.all, you know,
if you are going to use a feature
that is not in every browser,
but you want to be
compatible with others,
then you will need to do some
testing for capabilities,
probably in your JavaScript code.
So there are ways to do this
that work really nicely,
and the best way I can summarize
is use object detection.
So what this means is in JavaScript,
you can go at any object,
and that includes methods.
Methods themselves are
objects in JavaScript.
You can get the object,
and if the object isn't there,
you'll get undefined.
And so you can very easily
check before calling something,
just see if the object is there.
And that's a much better check than
to check which browser is there.
and then based on that,
guess which feature is
going to be present.
Another thing,
another particular specific tip
that people who've done lots of
websites tell me is important is
to use the getElementByID method
to find objects on the web page.
There are lots of ways that work in
one browser that don't work in another.
This is an area where
there's lots of extensions.
And this method works in all
the most important browsers,
and it's part of the standard.
So this is a specific example where
there's a standard way to do something,
so don't use an extension,
because you can do it the standard way.
Now, I wanted to mention,
this is kind of a little
bit of a side trip,
but it's worth mentioning.
Lots of people have asked us about
improving JavaScript debugging in Safari,
and a big part of making web
pages work well with WebKit is
actually debugging your pages,
trying them out in Safari,
seeing what's going on.
And so a lot of people had these pages
that weren't working quite right,
and they've asked us for
a little bit more help.
And we've provided something new in 1.0,
if you've used Beta 2.
It's not in Beta 2.
And it's the ability to log
JavaScript exceptions to the console.
And it sounds like a small thing,
but it really makes a big difference
when debugging a web page.
And all you need to do is
turn on the Safari debug menu.
And, you know,
I hardly need to write this tip up there,
because I believe everyone
in the big room said they
already knew how to do this.
But you just type this in
the command line to turn on.
And then the next time
you start up Safari,
you'll see the debug menu.
And then there's a menu item,
log JavaScript exceptions.
You turn that on,
and then in the console,
you will see information
about JavaScript exceptions.
And it's a little thing,
but it can really help you out
when you're trying to figure out
why your JavaScript isn't running.
Now, I actually,
when I'm doing JavaScript stuff,
I tend to also put, like,
lots of alerts in,
because it's easier than, like,
looking at a console window.
But this is--you don't even have
to change the web page to do this.
All right, so I've talked a little bit
about what you can do on your
websites to be compatible,
but I also want to talk about
what WebKit does to work with
the realities of the web.
So in the real world,
we've got web pages that don't
do any of the things we said,
do everything wrong
that I just mentioned,
and 100 other things wrong.
And we still want them
to work with a WebKit.
And the reason is that we're putting
WebKit into our new applications,
and you don't want to make
excuses why they can't work
with these existing websites.
So, what can you do about this?
Well, there's a couple things you
do that we did in WebKit that
I want to go into detail on,
just because they're
kind of geeky and fun.
And these have a lot to do,
these have more than you'd,
it's surprising the amount this has to do
with making web pages work with the site.
So, the WebKit's user agent string has to
look just right to all the websites
that are going to do various checks.
So, I already said it's vital that it
not have the word compatible in it,
because everyone knows that means
Microsoft Internet Explorer.
So,
every user agent string has been designed
for compatibility in a major web browser.
The very second web browser already
realized they couldn't change things from
the first web browser too much because
people were checking user agent string.
So, one of the goals for the WebKit's
one was to look like other
standards compliant browsers.
So, code where someone tried to
look for a standards compliant
browser in a kind of bad way,
it was important that it
got the idea it was on one.
So, that it gave Safari the kind
of content that works well for
a standards compliant browser.
And also,
it's important to remember that the
user agent string has a real purpose,
too, which is to identify
which web browser it is.
So we couldn't fill it with lies.
It couldn't say, you know,
I am Mac IE version 5.2
or something like that,
even if that gave us good web pages,
because you have to tell the truth.
You have to say that's the WebKit,
and you have to say which
the application it is.
And some people may have a
reason to check a version,
and so we've got to include
those version numbers.
And all the same things I said apply
to some important methods in the DOM.
There's a navigator object in
the DOM which has all sorts of
user agent-like strings that tell
you who wrote the web browser,
you know, all that sort of thing,
and it has the same kind of
goals as the user agent string.
So let's look at a user agent string.
So this is pretty much what the
user agent string looks like
from an application using Safari.
So let me just go through it.
I'm going to go through it a little,
because I don't know.
I just think it's fun.
So in the beginning it says Mozilla 5.0.
You have to say that.
In fact,
I would predict that five years from now,
user agent strings of all
the major browsers will still
start with Mozilla slash 5.0.
And really it's just because the first
version of Netscape said Mozilla,
and there are Mozilla checks in ancient
code that I won't do anything interesting
unless this browser is Mozilla.
And then inside the parentheses
are where all sorts of platform
identification stuff goes.
You'll notice that the primary
language of the user goes in there.
You set that in the system
preferences on Macintosh.
And I did this for my own machine,
so it says U.S.
English in there.
And some various platform identifiers.
You know, it's embarrassing to admit,
but I forgot what the U means.
There are experts in the
crowd who could tell me,
I'm sure.
But there's some,
the salient features start on the part
that's wrapped on the second line.
The string says the word Apple WebKit.
Now, if you find that none of these
other techniques work for you,
and you really want to do something
specific in the case of the WebKit,
please look for that string.
Don't look for the name Safari,
which just happens to be the
first WebKit application's name.
But look for Apple WebKit.
And in fact,
even look for the slash after it,
because, you know, to be sure,
you're not seeing the
string somewhere else.
So the version of the
WebKit appears right there.
And if you had some need
to check the version,
you could read it out of there.
But, you know, please don't,
because it's hard to parse these strings.
JavaScript doesn't really have, like,
regular expressions to help you.
Well, it does have regular expressions,
but it doesn't really have an easy
way to parse these apart correctly.
But the version is in there.
That's, like I said, telling the truth.
So then the next parentheses part is
just a perfect example of what you've
got to do to make the pages work.
The word gecko is in there.
You see it says, like gecko?
And gecko is the engine inside Mozilla.
And you might ask yourself,
why the hell are they mentioning gecko
in the user agent string for WebKit?
And the answer is that for
a huge amount of the web,
there's code that says,
if the string gecko is there,
use the new standards-compliant
way of doing things.
And if the string gecko isn't there,
do things in a way that only works
with Microsoft Internet Explorer.
And so,
this is vital to making web pages work,
that the word gecko be there somewhere.
But we didn't want to lie,
so we say we're like gecko.
So just before, like GECKO,
you see the words "KHTML" there.
And this is so that if there
are quirks of our engine,
which shares its innermost code
with the KHTML library-- it is the
KHTML library-- we wanted to make
sure there was one thing in our user
agent string that was also in the user
agent string from the KDE project with
their browser using the KHTML library.
So that's why the word
"KHTML" is in there.
And then finally,
your application name will go in there.
And you get to set that
when you use the WebKit.
If you do the codeless browser,
there won't be anything there.
But if you go and start to use delegates
to customize the behavior of the WebView,
you'll be able to put your own
application name and version in there.
So I'm not going to go through
this in quite as much detail,
but here are the navigator
properties I talked about.
And similarly,
these are driven in the same way by these
compatibility issues-- what existing
web pages check and what they expect.
The only one here I'll mention
specifically is I like product sub.
That's one of my favorites.
Because you'll notice it's this
mysterious eight-digit number.
And it's actually the ages
of all the Safari engineers
multiplied together-- OK,
not really.
What it is is that's the date
of the-- on the Gecko project,
they use that for the
date of the Gecko build.
So there's a lot of
websites out there that say,
OK, if I got Gecko,
then I'll do-- I'll do it
the standards-compliant way.
And if I've got a new enough Gecko
greater than a certain build date,
then I'll use this suite of features
that they didn't get into that date.
And it's not like people
are doing this a lot now,
but they did it like a year or two back.
And so it has to be
greater than some date.
So this had to be a year, month,
and date that was newer
than some old Gecko build.
So we picked completely
at random January 7,
2003 is our date.
So I can't remember.
There was something happened that
day that made us-- I don't know.
So anyway,
let me show you a couple more examples.
Let's go back to the demo machine.
And we can see how Safari Beta 2
used to render these pages.
So, I'm so proud of how 1.0 renders,
they were pretty good in beta 2.
So this is wired.com.
And this is an example of a
real-world web page that was
done entirely with standards.
There is none of this
old-fashioned way of doing stuff,
very little, you know,
checking user agent kind of glop.
And it's a beautiful page,
does lots of stuff,
very attractive layout,
all kinds of neat features
like changing the size of the
text from a link in the page.
And the reason I'm showing this,
the reason I'm showing these pages
is just to give you an idea that
you can make a really great web
page just sticking to the standards.
You don't have to use special
extensions to make a great web page.
So let me show you one other page.
page that was done with
that kind of philosophy.
This is ESPN.com,
and although it is designed
for a certain window width,
so it looks better.
I should have left the window that wide.
This site has a lot of really cool stuff.
I like this section here where you can
change around between different pages,
and all this is done
just with the standards.
There's no sneaky, weird stuff here.
A lot of designers think you can
do things that look really good
only by designing to one browser,
and it's just not true.
So let's go back to the slides here.
In fact,
here's something that the designer
of that website said about Safari.
A lot of people were asking him,
What did you do to make
it work well with Safari?
Other web designers.
You know,
obviously you spent a lot of time
working to make it work well.
And he said, "We did nothing to make
it work with Safari."
In fact, we didn't even-- we just
tested it on Safari.
Most of it worked,
then we tested it with the next beta,
and it all worked.
And, you know,
this is what he said about,
"If you're doing a
standards-based web page,
you don't have to know anything
specific about Safari because
Safari just works." So I was
really happy to see he said that,
so that's why I put it up there.
So that's most of what I have to say
about standards and compatibility.
Let's talk a little bit about a
big part of how we achieved this,
and that is how we use,
inside the WebKit,
open source and what that means to you.
So let's look again at
this picture of the WebKit.
Inside the WebKit are two
open source frameworks,
the WebCore framework and the
JavaScript Core framework.
So let's dig in into each of these.
The WebCore framework does most of the
HTML and HTML-related standards like
CSS and DOM heavy lifting for the WebKit.
It includes two big libraries, well,
not big in terms of lines of code,
but the two major subsections of WebCore.
One is the KHTML library,
which comes from the KDE project.
That same library is used inside
KDE's web browser and file manager,
Conqueror.
And what we've done to the KHTML library
is keep it basically the same
structure and the same concept.
In fact, our code can be used as
is back in the KDE land.
You can just move the
code right back there.
But we needed to connect it to Mac OS X.
KDE uses an underlying library called QT,
which is a library that does all the
sorts of toolbox things in its own way.
It doesn't do them the exact
same way that OS X does.
We wanted something that was really
using all of the OS X native technologies
for everything from text drawing,
drawing the buttons, event handling,
you know, top to bottom,
all sorts of things.
And so that's why we
built the Quack library.
It's spelled K-W-Q, pronounced quack.
And the Quack library connects
KHTML to the OS X underpinnings.
And the way I think of Quack
is if it quacks like a duck,
then it is a duck,
is kind of the concept of the library.
So, WebCore with KHTML and Quack,
there's one important piece that
comes from outside of WebCore,
which is the JavaScript language,
the JavaScript interpreter.
And that's inside the
JavaScript Core framework.
Now, JavaScript Core didn't really need
a big adapter layer like Quack,
but we did need to do a couple
things to take the KJS library,
again from the KDE project,
and combine it with some code that
we wrote ourselves to connect it
well with certain OS X technologies,
excuse me, and some other libraries that
work really well with it.
For example,
we really were able to improve
its regular expression support
by using the Perl-compatible
regular expression library.
It does a great job and
handles Unicode perfectly.
And there's some other
support libraries in there,
too, even smaller than those.
They're all part of JavaScript core.
So, WebCore is the only part of the
system using JavaScript Core.
Actually, WebKit uses
JavaScript Core through WebCore.
So why do we choose KHTML and KJS?
So again, I hope you heard about
this the last couple days,
but I'd like to repeat this again.
We looked at a lot of
different alternatives,
but in the end,
the big reasons were that this was
a code base that was easy to modify,
was fast, and it was easy to make it
faster-- and we've shown that time
and time again-- and was small.
And small in terms of lines of code,
number of different concepts,
small in every dimension
you could think of.
I didn't even mention how well it worked.
I'm really missing a
bullet point on that slide,
because it already did so many of
those standards we talked about.
We really worked on it to round it out.
So we collaborate with the
folks at KDE who are still
working on KHTML and KJS.
And the way it works is we keep
enhancing KHTML and KJS in the context
of JavaScript Core and Web Core.
They keep enhancing it,
and we exchange changes.
They send changes they've made.
We send them changes we've made.
So I wanted to,
since we're going a little bit
in-depth about this relationship,
I just wanted to talk about
a few of the contributions
we've made to KHTML and KJS.
So, you know, it's not complete detail,
but I thought it would
be neat to call them out.
So what you see here is a list of them.
So in terms of site compatibility,
we've made hundreds and hundreds
of changes to correct a small
bug or an omission or a way of
handling things so that it's more
compatible with the standards and
more compatible with the websites.
And the way this is really driven for us
is that we find websites that don't work,
we track them down,
we figure out what it is,
and then we make the change in
a way that works both for us and
for the original KHTML and KDE.
We've also made performance enhancements,
and we're particularly proud of these.
We sped up KJS.
We did these JavaScript benchmarks,
and we sped it up at least 10
times and even more on certain
subparts of the benchmark.
That was fun, just some little changes
in data structures,
keeping the basic concept the same.
We changed, we had some experience,
a couple members of our team
came from the Mozilla project,
so they had some understanding of the
way that Mozilla handled certain things,
like white space.
And we realized that Mozilla's handling
of white space really was needed to
correctly handle the DOM standard.
And so we changed the white space
handling and the line breaking
to be in line with the standard.
And then, I'm not gonna, well,
there are only three more listed here,
and there's probably like
30 more I could list.
But I just wanted to
give you some idea of,
there's a wide variety of changes
we're making inside HTML and KJS.
So we're not only,
we're not just taking it and
putting it on our platform,
we're giving a lot back, too.
So I want to be clear on this point.
We've talked about it
over and over again,
but I'd like to-- I think we
can't emphasize it enough time.
These are open source libraries.
So we can't tell you
what to do with them.
The license tells you
what you can do with them.
You can download them.
You can do whatever you want.
You can port them to some other platform,
whatever it is that turns you on.
What should you do with them?
Use them via the WebKit.
Use the WebKit.
Take advantage of them
through the great WebKit API.
If you link to them directly,
you and we both are in
for a world of hurt,
because we change their
interfaces all the time.
They're not the kind of polished
public APIs that we put in
and commit to in the system.
WebKit's APIs are in that category.
And also,
if you just use WebCore directly,
you're not going to--a lot of
the benefits come from the way
WebKit is connected to the WebCore,
to really connect it
up perfectly to OS X.
Some of the performance tuning is
only there if you use it all together.
All right,
so we've talked about the standards
and how we achieve compatibility.
Let's talk a little bit about the future.
First of all, we do use our own stuff.
Okay, this stuff is brand new.
The WebKit SDK is brand new.
But even though it just got
to the point where we really
could have people using it,
we already have a lot of
applications using the WebKit and
the Foundation URL APIs.
And so I'm not going to list them again.
You've probably even
seen this list before.
But we use it ourselves.
We're completely serious
about the WebKit.
Okay?
We're not -- This is not something
that we're just doing this year,
and then next year we're
going to do something else.
There's going to be more from Safari,
more features from Safari,
improved standard support of
each of the standards we support,
improved compatibility with websites,
all kinds of things from future Safaris.
There's going to be more in the WebKit.
A lot of those things I said
that we -- that will affect
every WebKit application.
And as I talked about before,
an area we plan to improve is plug-ins.
There's also,
we also plan to enhance the networking
APIs in all the ways I talked about,
improving standard support,
adding features.
We're in this for the long haul.
And we're also a member of the
most important standards body,
the W3C,
and we're participating in committees
that define future standards.
So standards for us doesn't just
mean implementing what websites
are already using or what other
people have already decided,
but it means getting in their
hammer and tongs and helping
figure out what the future of
web technologies are going to be.
So, the one request I have from you
is we'd like you to be serious,
too.
We'd like you to take the
WebKit seriously as a website designer,
and we'd like you to adopt the WebKit.
I think when you take a look at all
the stuff we have to do inside the
WebKit to make it work well with the web,
there really is no reason
to try to roll your own.
There's just so much in there for you.
So, I'm just going to,
before I switch to some of the books and
resources that I want to tell you about,
I'd like to summarize some of those
advantages that the WebKit offers.
One is it's easy to
embed in an application,
so if you're a programmer with an app,
no problem.
It's fast.
You're going to get the same kind
of speed that we get when we use
it in Safari if you use the WebKit.
The WebKit supports a
panoply of standards.
And it also supports the real-world
websites that skirt the edge or
ignore the standards completely.
Safari's continued development is going
to be one of the many drivers that will
keep driving improvements to the WebKit.
And the WebKit is built
right into the OS.
It doesn't make your app any
bigger and will have almost no
effect on startup time of your app.
So I'm not sure that these
slides are in the right order.
Before John does the wrap-up,
I want to talk a little bit
about some of the resources.
So let's come back to this
roadmap and who to contact.
I want to talk about some places
you can look for more information.
Here are a few of the places in
our documentation website that you
can find relevant stuff to the--
relevant documentation for the
things I've been talking about.
In addition, there are some really
valuable Apple websites.
The Apple Internet Developer website
has tons of information
about developing content,
web content, in ways that work well
with our web technology,
including one page I call out there,
the Safari Resources for Web Developers
page that has all kinds of stuff.
It includes pointers to documentation
about exactly what's supported by
various versions of Safari 1.0,
tips for using CSS and the DOM,
and all that sort of thing.
And then the SDK website.
I wanted to mention a few of these books.
In particular, the CSS book,
which is the second one down there,
and the DOM book, which is dynamic HTML,
a good way to describe both
the DOM and other features.
Those are incredibly useful,
some of the best references
on these subjects.
And that's how you're going to
know what the standards are.
In addition,
there are some great websites
about standards in specific and
why standards are a good idea.
Some of these I hadn't seen
until I was preparing my talk,
and they're really great.
They make the compelling case.
And the validator.w3.org up there
is the URL for a suite of different
validation tools that the W3C offers.
And then these are kind of fun.
There are a couple standard experts
who have some of the best resources
out there for CSS and the DOM.
And Eric, well, it says right there,
the one that's great for CSS tips and
another amazing for stuff about the DOM.
And they talk specifically about Safari,
too, so that'll help you as well.
So anyway, now--OK, sure, sure.
So let's go back to the roadmap.
And then--OK,
so because this is gonna be on the DVD,
there's a previous sessions.
The first two are previous
sessions you might want to look at,
the open-source session
and the Safari overview.
But after this session,
there's three more that I think
you may find really interesting.
The Advanced Foundation URL API session
is going to go into detail about the
URL loading APIs and what they are,
how to use them.
The Advanced WebKit API session
will tell you all sorts of
interesting things about the WebKit.
I actually think there are parts of
that that are interesting even if you
aren't gonna program with the WebKit.
So it's--definitely go to that one.
And then there's a feedback forum for
all the internet networking technologies,
which is on Friday--not day,
10:30 a.m., but Friday, 10:30 a.m.
So if you have feedback about
WebKit and standard supports,
please send it to John.
His email address is there.
And thank you very much.
I think it's time for Q&A.